Hello everyone and welcome to the data Brick's overview lecture in this lecture.
We're going to be showing you how to set up a data Brick's notebook and how to sign up for the free
community edition of data bricks.
Then we'll show you how to upload data to your notebook environment.
Afterwards in the next lecture we're going to create a recommender system using the canonical movie
lines data set.
This dataset contains information about user IDs movie IDs and then the rating they gave that particular
movie from one to five stars.
This lecture contains a resource see every file free to download.
This file contains the movie ratings data although we're also going to visit the Web site of movie Lions
in case you want to play with the full data 20 million ratings set.
Let's get started.
Open your browser and go to w w w thought to Brigstock com.
I'll see there OK here I am at data Brick's dot com and you can go to HTP as Colon slash slash data
Brigstock com or just google for data Brick's to find this web site.
And then somewhere along this site you should see trial data Brick's for free.
You can click on one of these boxes where it says try data bricks.
Or if you can't find that particular link just go to Datarock saw slash tried cache data bricks and
you see this where you have the full platform trial and the community edition.
Basically data bricks are going to be notebooks that are connected to clusters on a W-S or Amazon Web
Services and what the full platform trial.
You get a two week free trial that's excluding those Amazon Web Services charges and it has things such
as business intelligence tools an interactive guide to spark and data Brick's notebooks dashboards unlimited
clusters etc. We're going to be using the free community edition that involves just the mini 6 gigabyte
cluster an interactive notebook and dashboard environment which we're going to be playing around with.
And then the public environment the share your work.
Now keep in mind this six gigabyte cluster is a whole lot.
In fact most modern computers have more than six gigabytes of RAM.
So this really makes sense to do a real spark analysis.
But this should give you a little taste of what it's like to run a notebook on a real cluster.
Click here where it says start today.
And that should take you to the Sign-Up page in this sign up page Pessin your first name last name your
email company name.
You can just type in whatever you want there.
Set up a password and then a Sign-Up will send you an email.
And in that e-mail will be a confirmation link.
So make sure you use a function e-mail that you can check once you've signed up click on the e-mail
link and it should take you to the notebook page and Lloyd to jump to that notebook page.
Now OK here I am at the welcome page for the data Brick's community edition.
And you can find this a community dot cloud data Brigstock com.
Remember this should pop up after you sign in with the e-mail link.
Check your e-mail for that confirmation link.
And once you sign that it should look like this.
Now there's some featured notebooks here such as introduction to pacis spark on data bricks made of
bricks for data scientists an introduction to structures streaming.
I would really recommend they check this out.
There's a lot of great documentation here.
For more information and how to actually use the data brig's platform.
So for instance I would recommend that you check out this introduction to Apache Sparke on data bricks.
It says it's written in Python.
Data Brick's supports multiple languages.
Java Python Scala all the languages that SPARC runs.
But in this case this particular notebook is actually more text than in the code and also has links
to other notebooks in this gentle introduction series.
And this really allows you to be familiar with the data Brick's terminology.
There's workspaces and that basically allows you to organize all the work you're doing and most of the
work you're going to be doing isn't what's known as a notebook.
Now if you're familiar of Jupiter notebooks from other courses or languages such as Python or are you
probably already understand what a notebook is.
But if you don't have experience notebooks that's OK.
In this lecture we're going to be walking you through what a notebook is.
And there's also libraries and then tables and remember tables are just going to be the structure data
that we're going to be reading from for our data frames.
Then there's clusters and clusters are the groups of computers there were going to be treating conveniently
as a single computer and basically with the state of snowpack environment that's going to mean that
we can effectively treat 20 computers just as if it was a single computer connected to a single notebook.
What you're doing here is you're paying data breaks a little extra on top of Amazon Web Services or
the convenience of this interface of a notebook directly connected to a cluster.
These clusters are then going to execute jobs and then you have apps which are third party integrations
with the data Brick's platform.
So go ahead and read through this a little more.
But basically this just describes data bricks in a little more detail stuff that we're not going to
really cover such as pacis sparks history or context or environment or data interfaces such as data
sets or data frames we're already pretty familiar that.
But then it shows you how to create a cluster starting in notebook etc..
Now it also talks about the Apache SPARC architecture and how this works.
We discuss this a little bit but it's always nice to review.
OK.
So I would recommend you take the time to read through this notebook.
Don't worry that it's coded in Python there's really not that much code here that's just showing you
some examples of what's possible on the data Brick's platform.
All right what I want you to do now is click here on home and you should see something that looks like
this on home or we're going to do is start a new notebook.
Now we can see here you have a user's documentation release notes training tutorials shared then you
have users that should be your username at whatever e-mail you have and then some notebooks that you
open in this case a very open introduction to a patch spark and data Brick's for data scientists and
note books that came with it.
If you come back here to data Brick's that's going to allow you to create a new notebook.
Now first we actually need to create a cluster.
So I'm going to start a new notebook and show you how concerned you closer from a notebook in case you
ever accidentally started you know books about starting a cluster.
Here we have our new notebook.
We'll call this my first notebook you can call it whatever you want.
It makes you pick the language scholars and that's what we've been working in.
Click creates and this creates this Scullin up book and you'll notice that it says detached.
And basically here in this notebook environment we have cells where we can type in Scala or Sparke code
such as print Ellen and we will say hello.
What's world.
And I can either click play here to run this or hit shift.
Plus enter to run.
Now if I run the cell we should get a little alert telling us we have no cluster OK.
So here is this note because not attached to a cluster.
Would you like to launch a new cluster.
Notice here that the default is the older version of SPARC one point 6.2 instead of actually clicking
launching and run click Cancel here and Ill say detached or we're going to do is under the tach say
could that create a cluster or you could just go back to data bricks and instead of saying you know
books a new cluster.
Now here we have a new cluster Let's get this cluster name we'll call it like cluster and you can here
choose the version of SPARC and Skala you want this case we want SPARC 2.0 0.2 or 2.0 0.1.
Or are the latest versions of SPARC at this moment in time.
I'm going to choose the latest version available to me which is SPARC 2.0 point two way scholar two
point one one or two point eleven.
And in this instance the reason the community.
We get free six gigabytes of memory and then you can also have advanced settings such as AWOS where
it's going to be organized.
So the availability zone et cetera.
And then you have Spart configuration.
Most of these advanced settings are not going be able to change much because you're working on the community
edition which is just six gigabytes of memory.
So once you've set up the Apache SPARC version to be 2.0 does it have to be 2.0 0.2 can be 2.0 one or
just 2.0.
I recommend using probably the latest version 2.0.
Click here on create cluster and this will eventually create that cluster and attach it to this notebook.
So here if we go to the attached now we will see attached to my cluster.
This cluster is being initiated and created.
Click here and it will say pending.
And once the cluster is done being created and run on AWOS it will connect to this notebook.
You may have to wait about 30 seconds for that to connect.
So I'm going to fast forward in time for that finishing pending.
OK.
It just finished.
I actually have asked for those more about 10 seconds and now I can say Prince Ellen hello world and
run the cell.
All right.
So here we can see after running that cell we get the output directly below.
And if you want a new cell you have a couple of options.
You can click here on this and it down to where it says add cell below or add cell above and you will
end up getting a new cell.
There's actually a bunch of shortcuts.
If you ever want to refer to them click here on shortcuts and this will review all the shortcuts that
are available to such as shortcuts for inserting a inserting a cell above running a command than inserting
a cell below just running command that cetera definitely as you use notebooks more and more these will
become second nature to you right now will basically just be worrying about shift enter which is running
a cell you know what's really cool about a notebook environment is the fact that you get to see the
output directly below the cell.
There's no need to load up a spark shell and run an entire script.
For instance if I say vallée x is equal to hello and do shift enter this will run this it create that
string x.
And what's nice about this notebook environment is you can basically treat each cell as if it was just
a single line or multiple lines being inputted into your SPARC shell.
For instance we can make another variable My gnome equal to to shift and try to run that cell and it
runs it there.
We see the output below.
Now if I referenced it here with myname shift enter I can see that it was the second result.
Integer is equal to two.
All right.
So that's really the basics of what we want to cover for notebooks.
For now we're going to get a lot more practice with them and we actually build a recommender system.
Essentially you can weigh out the pros and cons of a notebook by saying the pros is this cell interface
which quickly allows you to play around with variables and data and make quick little chunks of code
easily accessible to you and run chunks of code at a time.
Because being this isn't an ideal programming environment where you want a much longer sparker Scalia's
script usually you'd probably want to go back to Intelli J and run your code there because these cell
formats isn't going to be the best thing for running large chunks of code.
All right now let me show you how to actually upload data.
If you click here on the tables icon and then click here or create a table you will see the data import
menu and basically data Brick's allows you to import files from a variety of sources.
In this case we have it just as file and we can't upload the file but I want you to do is download the
resource file that contains the movie ratings and then upload it here.
But before I upload it I want to show you the different options.
There's S-3 and S-3 is a very common storage especially for large data and it's basically a storage
of Amazon Web Services.
So familiar if if you're familiar of Amazon Web Services all you have to do is passing your key id your
secret access key as well as the S3 bucket name.
And you'd be able to browse that bucket and import data directly from your S-3 bucket.
Usually you're not going to be importing or uploading huge files of directly from your computer.
You would do that from S-3.
The other file format available to you is this data Brick's file system.
And basically what this is is if you upload a file at a data Brick's it's going to turn it into this
data Brick's file system or format.
And then there's also Jaydee B.C. And this is basically going to allow you to connect to a typical sequel
type database you'd have to put into your URL and you can connect to that database to your username
the password and then either the table you want or some sort of sequel query to actually connect to
that table.
Let's go back to file and upload the actual movie ratings file that came as a resource for this lecture.
We're going to just have to drag it and drop here.
OK once that's done uploading make sure you check out this link right here.
This is the link for the data bricks file system and it's going to save it onto your data file system.
Copy this link and then go back to your workspace to your notebook.
In this case we're going to go to my first notebook.
Double click on that.
And let's actually grab this and read the CACP file.
In this case we're going to do what we always do.
We're going to just say thou is equal to what.
Well data.
Scuse me it's equal to spark da read.
And since this is a C as we file we can just say option hetter So be true.
And then we will also say Option 2 and for schema so that we don't just get them all strings to be true
and then I will say that cxxviii and I will pass that string of the file store movie ratings CACP.
So all you have to do is say validate is equal to and just like we've done in the past spark that read
option etc. the options for the CAC file something that's really interesting to note here however is
that they have to actually import Sparke the Daybreak's notebook format understands that when you say
SPARC here you're referring to this cluster connection that you already did.
So I will do alt enter in Ultegra is going to run the cell and create a cell below it.
OK.
So it's done those SPARC jobs and now we have data which is a data frame we take out data and say print
schema shift and we can see here that we have a user id a movie Id and a rating.
And basically what this is is a particular user ID.
For instance you can imagine this being on Netflix saw a particular movie with a numerical ID number
and a numerical ID number is also related to a particular title.
So for instance movie one is equal to Star Wars movie 2 is equal to Indiana Jones etc. and then they
gave a rating a rating.
It's just a number between one to five as a double and we can actually check that out by asking for
the head of the data.
So I will say data head well it's grabbed maybe the first five rows of that data that we can see here
we have user id one for the movie the 31 gave it two and a half stars movie Id.
Or you squeeze me the one for the movie The 1029 gave this rating gave this particular movie three stars
etc. and all the ones in the beginning are for that first user and then it goes to user number to the
movies they've watched the rating and gave it user number three etc. So make sure that you've been able
to successfully upload your data to the tables and been able to read it using this option and really
make sure that you save wherever this CSP file is.
So copy this and write it down somewhere.
That way you always have it as a reference.
OK.
Coming up next we're going to actually build out our recommender system on the movie lence data sets.
If you're interested in finding out more about the actual movie lens dataset besides a small sample
we have here.
You can click here or actually go to group lens dot org slash data sites slash movie lines or basically
just google movie lens and this will take you to the actual official research page for a group lends
research and group blends research is basically the creator of this canonical data set.
If you ever see any tutorials on recommender systems they're pretty much always benchmarked by this
particular dataset.
Now the large data set is actually 20 million ratings.
So if you want to actually push it all the way AWOS maybe you purchased the actual data Brick's not
the community version.
You can download the zip file.
It's 190 megabytes zips it's quite a bit larger when you add zip it.
But for instance right now we're actually just using this much smaller data set we're using this latest
small which was about 1 megabyte unzipped or 1.4 megabytes.
So it's really up to you if you want to play around a larger data set.
It really is the power of SPARC.
But remember you're not to pay for a larger cluster.
Right now we're keeping things small to keep everything in the free tier.
You can find that more information just by googling movie lens or going to group lens or flash slash
movie lines.
But all we did in this particular lecture was show you how to set up your data account set up our first
notebook set up the first cluster and upload the movie ratings data now we're going to be using in the
next lecture to actually build the recommendation system.
OK.
Do you have any questions feel free to post them to the Q&A forums.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.